---
title: About Me
seo:
  title: About Me
  description: Bradley Burgess is a developer & musician who is passionate about open source software and
    building beautiful things.
  image:
    src: '/bradley-piano-landscape.jpg'
    alt: Bradley playing a grand piano, looking down, lost in the music
---

![Bradley playing a grand piano, looking down, lost in the music](/bradley-piano-landscape.jpg)

> _I love keyboards — I think that's the TL;DR of it._

## My story

I have always loved music and I have always loved tech — and I can trace both
passions back to early [“core
memories”](https://insideout.fandom.com/wiki/Core_Memories).

I fell in love with computers at the age of 8 or so when a school friend's mom
taught me how to use DOS and walked me through writing my first program in
QBasic. In hindsight, it was a really trivial program (a CLI directory /
phonebook app), but that amazing feeling of putting words in a text editor
causing a computer to ask you questions and then save the responses to disk? The
feeling of that memory never went away. Similarly, the feeling of bringing
something to life with a keyboard stayed with me…

I fell in love with music a little earlier than that. I don't know how old I was
exactly, but I would “help” my sister (10 years older than me) practice. This I
would do by standing at the lower end of the piano, and playing specified bass
notes when she told me to. I'm sure I was more a nuisance than anything, but
those memories started a love affair with the piano and, subsequently, the pipe
organ.

Ultimately, music won, and I went on to study music at universities and
conservatories and have a professional career in music as a pianist, organist,
and conductor. I have loved every minute.

However, after 20 years, it is time for a change, and I am now pursuing a career
in tech.

If there's one thing that ties my passions together, it's keyboards. I love
keyboards — I think that's the TL;DR of it. That might sound silly, but
ultimately I derive a lot of satisfaction from using my hands to make
instruments do amazing things — whether that's writing code to build an app, or
coaxing beautiful sounds from a massive pipe organ.